docs: add GOVERNANCE doc (#576)
lyft/amundsen: GOVERNANCE.md

# Process for becoming a maintainer

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have two different processes to welcome new maintainers to the project, depending if their organization is already a maintainer of Amundsen or not.
```

> ## Your organization is not yet a maintainer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## If your organization is not yet a maintainer
```

> * Express interest to the senior maintainers that your organization is interested in becoming a maintainer. Becoming a maintainer generally means that you are going to be spending substantial time (>25%) on Amundsen for the foreseeable future. Ultimately your goal is to become a senior maintainer that will represent your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Start by expressing interest to the senior maintainers that your organization is interested in becoming a maintainer. Becoming a maintainer generally means that you are going to be spending substantial time (>25%) on Amundsen for the foreseeable future. Ultimately your goal is to become a senior maintainer that will represent your organization.
```

* We will expect you to start contributing increasingly complicated PRs, under the guidance of the existing senior maintainers.
* We may ask you to do some PRs from our backlog.
* As you gain experience with the code base and our standards, we will ask you to do code reviews for incoming PRs (i.e., all maintainers are expected to shoulder a proportional share of community reviews).

> * After a period of approximately 2-3 months of working together and making sure we see eye to eye, the existing senior maintainers will confer and decide whether to grant maintainer status or not. We make no guarantees on the length of time this will take, but 2-3 months is the approximate goal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After approximately 2-3 months of working together and making sure we see eye to eye, the existing senior maintainers will confer and decide whether to grant maintainer status or not. We make no guarantees on the length of time this will take, but 2-3 months is the approximate goal.
```

Reviewer 2: Do we need to say `making sure we eye to eye`? I would just rephrase this to read `After about 2-3 months of working on the project, an existing senior maintainer will initiate a voting process to decide whether to award maintainer status. Please note 2-3 months is just a suggested timeline and should by no means considered a guarantee to get maintainer status. Each contributor's timeline may vary widely based on the number and complexity of contributions` -  Please let me know what you think?

> ## Your organization is currently a maintainer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## If your organization is currently a maintainer
```

> * First decide whether your organization really needs more people with maintainer access. Valid reasons are "blast radius", a large organization that is working on multiple unrelated projects, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* First, decide whether your organization needs more people with maintainer access. Valid reasons are "blast radius", a large organization working on multiple unrelated projects, etc.
```

Reviewer 2: Do you have any guidelines on how many we would like per organization on average? How many is too many? Are there other valid reasons than "blast radius" ?

> * Contact a senior maintainer for your organization and express interest.

Reviewer 2: What if your organization doesn't yet have a senior maintainer? Also, How would one know who is a senior maintainer and who is not? And how would they contact them? Is there a formal process to contact or can someone just DM directly on slack?

Reviewer: I think those are legit questions.

> * Start doing PRs and code reviews under the guidance of your senior maintainer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Start by resolving [open issues](https://github.com/lyft/amundsen/issues), contributing code changes and/or reviewing open pull requests.
```

> * After a period of 1-2 months the existing senior maintainers will discuss granting "standard" maintainer access. This will require 3 (senior) maintainers +1 vote and no -1 vote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After 1-2 months, the existing senior maintainers will discuss granting "standard" maintainer access. The approval requires 3 (senior) maintainers +1 vote and no -1 vote.
```

Reviewer 2: Should be `atleast` 3 senior maintainers approval right? Also, could you elaborate on how this would be carried out? Should the member apply to be a maintainer or is this more a decision by senior maintainer to initiate the process?

Reviewer 2: Would the approval conversation happen over a email thread or would it be a poll? Do you think we should add some guidelines on how long should the poll be open (like min of 3 business or 1 week) as the poll cannot be closed as soon as we get 3 approvals right? We would have to provide sufficient time for all senior members to review ( and potentially do a -1 if required).

Reviewer 2: could you elaborate on what is required for someone to vote -1? Also, could you elaborate on what is the process when someone is denied maintained status? Should they expect some communication around what they should next?

* "Standard" maintainer access can be upgraded to "senior" maintainer access after another 1-2 months of work and another conference of the existing senior committers.

> ## Maintainer responsibilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Maintainer responsibilities
```

* Monitor email aliases.
* Monitor Slack (delayed response is perfectly acceptable).
* Triage GitHub issues and perform pull request reviews for other maintainers and the community.

> * Triage build issues - file issues for known flaky builds or bugs, and either fix or find someone to fix any master build breakages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Triage build issues - file issues for known flaky builds or bugs, fix or find someone to fix any master build breakages.
```

> * During GitHub issue triage, apply all applicable [labels](https://github.com/lyft/amundsen/labels) to each new issue. Labels are extremely useful for future issue follow up. Which labels to apply is somewhat subjective so just use your best judgment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* During GitHub issue triage, apply all applicable [labels](https://github.com/lyft/amundsen/labels) to each new issue. Labels are extremely useful for future issue follow-ups. Which labels to apply is somewhat subjective, so use your best judgment.
```

> * During GitHub issue triage, apply all applicable [labels](https://github.com/lyft/amundsen/labels) to each new issue. Labels are extremely useful for future issue follow up. Which labels to apply is somewhat subjective so just use your best judgment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* During GitHub issue triage, apply all applicable [labels](https://github.com/lyft/amundsen/labels) to each new issue. Labels are extremely useful for future issue follow up. Adding labels is somewhat subjective so please use your best judgement.
```

* Make sure that ongoing PRs are moving forward at the right pace or closing them.

> * In general continue to be willing to spend at least 25% of ones time working on Amundsen (~1.25) business days per week).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In general, continue to be willing to spend at least 25% of one's time working on Amundsen (~1.25) business days per week).
```

## When does a maintainer lose maintainer status

> If a maintainer is no longer interested or cannot perform the maintainer duties listed above, they should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status. In extreme cases this can also occur by a vote of the maintainers per the voting process below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a maintainer is no longer interested or cannot perform the maintainer duties listed above, they should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status. In extreme cases, this can also occur by a vote of the maintainers per the voting process below.
```

> ## Conflict resolution and voting

Reviewer: I would shuffle a bit the structure of this doc, with an outline like this:

- Conflict resolution
- Maintainer Responsibilities
- How to become a maintainer
- When a maintainer loses status
- Adding projects

> In general, we prefer that technical issues and maintainer membership are amicably worked out between the persons involved. If a dispute cannot be decided independently, the maintainers can be called in to decide an issue. If the maintainers themselves cannot decide an issue, the issue will be resolved by voting. The voting process is a simple majority in which each senior maintainer receives two votes and each normal maintainer receives one vote (we could introduce senior maintainer like PMC later).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, we prefer that technical issues and maintainer membership are amicably worked out between the involved persons. If a dispute cannot be decided independently, the maintainers can be called in to decide an issue. If the maintainers themselves cannot decide on a problem, the issue will be resolved by voting. The voting process is a simple majority in which each senior maintainer receives two votes, and each regular maintainer receives one vote (we could introduce senior maintainer like PMC later).
```

> ## Adding new projects to the amundsen-io GitHub organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Adding new projects to the Amundsen-io GitHub organization
```

> New projects will be added to the amundsen-io organization via GitHub issue discussion in one of the existing projects in the organization. Once sufficient discussion has taken place (~3-5 business days but depending on the volume of conversation), the maintainers of *the project where the issue was opened* (since different projects in the organization may have different maintainers) will decide whether the new project should be added. See the section above on voting if the maintainers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will add new projects to the Amundsen organization via GitHub issue discussion in one of the organization's existing projects. Once sufficient discussion has taken place (~3-5 business days but depending on the volume of conversation), the maintainers of *the project where the issue was opened* (since different projects in the organization may have different maintainers) will decide whether the new project should be added. See the section above on voting if the maintainers
```

Reviewer 2: Not clear what `new projects` here refers to. Do you mean adding `new features to Amundsen` and creating an issue in one of the sub-components?

Reviewer: I think this means new repositories on the organization.

cannot easily decide.

> ## References

Reviewer: Is this a Glossary instead?

> - Senior maintainer == PMC in ASF

Reviewer: What is ASF?
